---
layout: post
title: "Delivery"
description: "The appliances are finally delivered"
date: 2022-09-03
feature_image: images/sink.jpg
tags: 
---

Progress continues to inch along. The builders were back doing some electrical work and continuing to work on the cabinets. Tantalizingly, after a slight hiccup last week I finally got my appliances delivered. A step toward completion, even if I can't use them yet.

<!--more-->

The electricians were back on site to start preparing for the second fix. Most of the wiring is now in place for the final boxes and connections to be made at the panel. I'm less clear why they punched a couple of holes in the that had been plastered. They're not exactly attractive. I'm hoping they get covered up later.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/mystery-holes.jpg" title="Holes in the wall" caption="It's not totally clear why they cut these two holes into the plastered back wall" %}

Work also continued on the cabinets. They were re-aligned so that the fridge-freezer will be in-plane with the rest of the base cabinets. Holes were cut into the tops for the eventual installation of the cooktop and sink. They left the sink in the cutout, which is fun to see. It's obviously not plumbed in, but there's something about it that helps me feel the progress.

I also finally got my appliances delivered. I think they're a ways off installing them, but it's great to see them on site.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/appliances-boxed.jpg" title="A cabinet door" caption="It certainly looks to me like they drilled through the face of the cabinet and patched it" %}

Once again, I'm not entirely sure what's next. Here's hoping they can get the bulk of it done by the end of the month.
