---
layout: post
title: "Corian, Part II"
description: "The installation of the counters continues"
date: 2022-11-19
feature_image: images/counters-corner-wide.jpg
tags: 
---

I take the progress I can get. The solid surface team returned yesterday to continue working on the Corian installation. They definitely moved the project forward --- more on that in a bit --- though didn't quite get the installation done.

<!--more-->

The course of this project never did run smooth. There was some confusion around the space that would be left underneath the cabinets for the strip of LED lighting and power outlets. Those will get hidden in a small gap between the bottom of the cabinet boxes and the backsplash.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/counters-backsplash-corner.jpg" title="Backsplash" caption="The backsplash has gone in successfully" %}

Fortunately, it was possible to swap out the half-inch wallboard with quarter-inch wallboard to compensate for the fact they've had to use half-inch (rather than quarter-inch) Corian on the backsplash.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/counters-channel.jpg" title="Channel" caption="A strip of LED lights and a run of outlets will get installed in this gap" %}

With that detail in place, they were able to successfully install the backsplash pieces behind the cooktop and on the side wall with the lighting controls. It looks very sharp.

They also drilled out the hole for the sink faucet. I was a bit overeager and roughly installed the faucet (which has been sitting, waiting, in my apartment for months) to see what it looks like.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/counters-faucet-temporary.jpg" title="Faucet mock up" caption="I couldn't help myself and slipped the faucet in to see what it would look like. Sadly, the plumbing isn't connected up." %}

Sadly, the solid surface installers weren't quite able to finish by the time my building's approved construction hours ran out. They've still got to install pieces to clad the underside of the upper cabinets, a piece on the side of the upper cabinet run, and a small piece to cover the currently exposed side of the oven cabinet at the end of the base cabinet run.

With Thanksgiving rapidly approaching next week, I'm really hoping they can get enough done in the working days next week that I can have a working kitchen again. Given how this effort has gone, I think truly finishing the project is probably unrealistic. But if I could have a working refrigerator, a bit of lighting, water, and my appliances working, that would be pretty amazing.




