---
layout: post
title: "Inching Toward Completion"
description: "The carpentry team made its return"
date: 2022-12-06
feature_image: images/dishwasher-no-panel.jpg
tags: 
---

There was a bit of activity on site yesterday as the carpenters returned to make progress on millwork installation. They got most of the panels mostly installed, and they made some progress fixing other issues like the appliance installation.

<!--more-->

On the appliances, the oven shelf got installed, so my oven is now correctly installed above the lower drawer. Unfortunately, the power receptacle for the oven is too big. The electricians will have to come back and make some adjustments to the oven can be pushed all the way back into the cabinet box.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/oven-drawer.jpg" title="Oven moved" caption="The oven is now in the correct location above the drawer" %}

Likewise, my refrigerator installation got closer, but still isn't quite there. They flipped the door, so it's now hinged on the left. This makes a lot more sense trying to get out ingredients from the kitchen area on the right of it. It's also now firmly anchored in the cabinet box. That said, I have some concerns: the top filler piece still isn't installed correctly, and the front of the appliance isn't plumb.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="images/panels-nearly.jpg" title="Panels installed" caption="Ignore the mess: the panels are now mostly and mostly correctly installed, the last big messy job" %}

The biggest and messiest job got close as well: the carpenter got most of the mega pegboard panels mostly installed. It looks very slick, and it will look even better once the former kitchen area gets tidied up. Of course, nothing on this project is without caveats. One of the panels was installed the wrong way around.

Confusion more generally resulted in having to sacrifice a couple of panels. Good planning meant there's an extra sheet they can use to re-make the missing pieces. Those will get CNC milled to the exact size required, and should slot in later without too much fuss.

Tomorrow I'm finally getting all my furniture back in. Though there are still myriad additional punch list items that need to get done, however. Probably most acutely in my eyes: handles for all my cabinets and getting the cabinet panel installed on my dishwasher. It's very difficult to load when you have to hold the door down with one arm or your leg.
